After learning about mapping,
you will move along to learn about SLAM.
Simultaneous Localization and Mapping.
In SLAM, a robot must construct a map of the environment,
while simultaneously localizing itself relative to this map.
This problem is more challenging than localization and mapping,
since neither the map nor the robots poses are provided.
With noise in the robot's motions and measurements,
the map and robot's pose will be uncertain,
and the errors in the robot's pose estimates,
and map will be correlated.
The accuracy of the map depends on the accuracy of the localization and vice versa.
SLAM is often called the chicken or the egg
problem because the map is needed for localization,
and the robot's pose needed for mapping.
SLAM truly is a challenge,
but it's fundamental to mobile robotics.
For robots to be useful to society,
they must be able to move in environments that they've never seen before.
For instance, one of SLAM's applications is the robot vacuum cleaner.
Such a vacuum comes equipped with sensors that help it
map the room and estimate its pose as vacuums.
That's right, because it wouldn't be feasible to provide
the robot with a map of all the furniture every time,
especially not in my house,
where things seem to shift every day.
Other applications of SLAM include self driving vehicles, be on the roads,
or an underground mines, aerial surveillance,
and even robots mapping the surface of Mars.
SLAM algorithms generally fall into five categories.
Extended kalman filter or EKF,
sparse extended information filter or SEIF,
extended information form or EIF, FastSLAM, and GraphSLAM.
In this module, you'll be introduced to the FastSLAM algorithm which uses
the particle filter approach along with the low
dimensional extended kalman filter to solve the SLAM problem.
You'll then adapt this algorithm to grid maps,
which will results in a grid based fastSLAM algorithm.
Finally, you will learn graphSLAM.
GraphSLAM uses constraints to represent
relationships between robot poses and the environment,
and then tries to resolve all of these constraints
to create the most likely map given the data.
You'll also learn about a graphSLAM implementation
called real time appearance based mapping,
or RTABmap which will then be using in your next project.